# literate-giggle
Punnett Square Maker
My project is a Punnett square generator that finds the second generation and its dominance, for three different attributes. The three are hair color, eye color, and handedness. To make the Punnett squares, I take in the parents, for each attribute, by the user using the program. I make sure they input two letters with the three types of categories: homozygous dominant, heterozygous, and homozygous recessive. Then I get the four combinations I need to represent the second generation. Finally, to figure out if the four saved combinations are dominant or recessive, I loop through all of them and check if one of the characters is uppercase. Next, I increase an integer representing the percentage of dominance. Then, I print the data out, in an artistic way, by using my syntax knowledge of C++. My program gives the user the ability to figure out how Punnett squares work and how they can be used to get the genotypes of the second generation to determine the phenotypes. It helps show the difference between dominant and recessive genes, which in my case, shows the difference between a dominant right-handed gene and a recessive left-handed gene. At first, I was going to make a generator for random Punnett squares, but then I realized that making it so the program has given examples that have real-world applications can help people better understand what Punnett squares do. Punnett squares are an important part of biology and understanding heritable genetics, which I have made clear and easy for people to understand.
